Excerpt (lines 1568-1690) of S.L. 549.42 Conservation of Wild Birds Regulations, consolidated PDF from https://legislation.mt/eli/sl/549.42/eng/pdf, retrieved 5 Oct 2026.
Header of the consolidation: 'LEGAL NOTICE 79 of 2006, as amended by ... 299 of 2024 and 251 of 2025.' (no 2026 amending notice listed).
Extracted with pdftotext -layout; regulation 'offences' sub-regulations (2) and (3).

                                terms of any provision of these regulations) or to
                                contravene any restriction, prohibition or requirement
                                imposed by or under these regulations,
                    shall be guilty of an offence against these regulations.
                      (2) Any person who commits an offence against regulations 4, 6,
                    18, 19, 21, 23 and 24 shall be liable:
                            (a) on a first conviction to a fine (multa) of not less than
                                five hundred euro (€500) but not exceeding five thousand
                                euro (€5,000) and the confiscation of the corpus delicti.
                                 The Court shall also order the suspension of the relevant
                                 licence or permit, issued under these regulations and
Cap. 10.                         under Part XV of the Code of Police Laws, for a period
                                 of not less than two years but not exceeding five years;
                            (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine (multa)
                                of not less than one thousand euro (€1,000) but not
                                exceeding ten thousand euro (€10,000) or to
                                imprisonment for a term of not less than six months
                                but not exceeding two years, or to both such fine and
                                imprisonment and also the confiscation of the corpus
                                delicti.
                                 The Court shall also order the permanent revocation of
                                 the relevant licence or permit, issued under these
Cap. 10.                         regulations and under Part XV of the Code of Police
                                 Laws:
                         Provided that the Court may, in its discretion, impose a
Cap. 446.           Community Service Order on the offender in terms of the Probation
                    Act:
                            Provided further that any person who commits an offence
                    against any other regulation not mentioned in this sub-regulation,
                    which offence involves any bird included in Schedule I or in
                    Schedule IX, or hunts or attempts to hunt, takes or attempts to take
                    birds in the beaches listed in Schedule VII, shall be liable to a
                    punishment according the provisions of this sub-regulation:
                           Provided further that notwithstanding the provisions of this
                    sub-regulation, any person who hunts or attempts to hunt or takes
                    or attempt to take any of the birds included in Schedule I or in
                    Schedule IX, but not included in Schedule II, shall be liable:
             CONSERVATION OF WILD BIRDS                          [ S.L.549.42      31

       (a) on a first conviction to a fine (multa) of five thousand
           euro (€5,000) or to imprisonment for one year, or to
           both such fine and imprisonment and to the permanent
           revocation of the relevant licence or permit, issued under
           these regulations and under Part XV of the Code of           Cap. 10.
           Police Laws, and the confiscation of the corpus delicti;
       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction to a fine (multa)
           of ten thousand euro (€10,000) or to imprisonment for
           two years, or to both such fine and imprisonment and
           the confiscation of the corpus delicti. This provision
           shall also apply to persons who were previously
           convicted of an offence involving hunting or taking, or
           attempting to hunt and or take any birds listed in
           Schedule I or Schedule IX, but not included in
           Schedule II, prior to the entry into force of this
           paragraph; and, in the case of such prior conviction
           where the relevant permit or licence was previously not
           revoked, the Court shall order the permanent revocation
           of the relevant permit or licence issued under these
           regulations and under Part XV of the Code of Police
           Laws upon the second conviction:                             Cap. 10.

                 Provided further that without prejudice to the
             provisions of this sub-regulation, in determining the
             gravity of the offence, the Court may consider,
             amongst others, the following factors:
       (a) the impact that the offence has on the conservation
           status of the affected species;
       (b) the legal or administrative protection status of the area
           where the offence took place;
       (c) the possible damage to the ecological balance or to the
           habitat as a consequence of the offence;
       (d) the impact of the offence on the general public by
           nature of the time, place, species affected or any other
           similar consideration inherent to the nature of the
           offence;
       (e) intrinsic value of wildlife;
       (f)   the socio-economic benefits of wildlife;
       (g) public interest; and
       (h) potential quantum of the illegal gain.
  (3) Any person who commits an offence against any other
regulation not mentioned in sub-regulation (2) and its proviso
respectively, shall be liable:
       (a) on a first conviction to a fine (multa) of not less than
           five hundred euro (€500) but not exceeding two thousand
           and five hundred euro (€2,500), and the confiscation of
           the corpus delicti;
       (b) on a second or subsequent conviction, to a fine (multa)
           of not less than one thousand euro (€1,000) but not
           exceeding five thousand euro (€5000) or to
32          [ S.L.549.42                  CONSERVATION OF WILD BIRDS

                                 imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years, or to
                                 both such fine and imprisonment as well as the
                                 confiscation of the corpus delicti:
                         Provided that the Court may, in its discretion, impose a
Cap. 446.           Community Service Order on the offender in terms of the Probation
                    Act:
                            Provided further that the Court shall also order the suspension
                    of the relevant licence or permit issued under these regulations and
Cap. 10.            Part XV of the Code of Police Laws for a period of not less than two
                    years but not exceeding five years:
                             Provided further that, without prejudice to the provisions of
                    the third proviso of sub-regulation (2), any person who hunts or
                    attempts to hunt or takes or attempts to take birds without a valid
                    licence shall be liable to the punishments contemplated under sub-
                    regulation (2)(b) and the Courts shall also order that the convicted
                    person shall be disqualified from obtaining the relevant licence or
Cap. 10.            permit under these regulations and under Part XV of the Code of
                    Police Laws for life and where such licence has been permanently
                    revoked in terms of sub-regulation (2)(b) or the Court has already
                    ordered the disqualification from obtaining the relevant licence or
                    permit for life, such person shall, upon conviction, be liable to a fine
                    (multa) of not less that seven thousand euro (€7,000) but not exceeding
                    fifteen thousand euro (€15,000) and to imprisonment for a term of not
                    less than one year but not exceeding two years.
                       (4) Notwithstanding the provisions of article 370 of the
Cap. 9.             Criminal Code, proceedings for an offence against these
                    regulations shall be taken before the Court of Magistrates (Malta)
                    or the Court of Magistrates (Gozo), as the case may be, and shall be
                    in accordance with the provisions of the Criminal Code regulating
                    the procedure before the said courts of criminal judicature.
Cap. 9.               (5) Notwithstanding the provisions of the Criminal Code, the
                    Attorney General shall always have a right of appeal to the Court of